so Snorlax just asked a question here
what's your girlfriend's stance on rap
and hip-hop music so the first email I
sent to you was about the music in your
videos not only the hip-hop music but
also the video game music kid chameleon
and toejam and Earl so yeah that was one
of the first things that I asked that
sort of suggested that you're older than
you are you're 24 years old but you
actually picked up on the cultural
references both in terms of the video
game music and the rap music and you and
you knew that and you know also this
kind of a famous thing within our
relationship but even though there was
nothing flirtatious about what she said
in that email
I absolutely picked up on the
sub-basement of barely repressed sexual
interests that was beneath the edifice
of polite conversation about rap music
via the first private email you sent to
me was indeed a bell rapping you were
asking you think you just wanted to
track down some of the tracks you wanted
to recorded them and so on yeah so you I
mean you could talk about this I've
already made videos about you know me
and rap music I made a couple how did
you first start listen hip hop and
without you know without naming names
we're not pointing the finger at anyone
well actually I wanted to say that that
email to you I drafted it like three
different sizes racially send it to you
so I really did cut down a lot of stuff
that I was saying about how important
your channel was to just my life like
how it wasn't in the earlier drafts it
wasn't there was more flirtatious
material there was more flattering to
over there's more talking about what my
channel might say it's interesting yeah
I mean obviously I never read those
emails I read the final great I mean
yeah you guys really oh um yeah so how I
first got into hip-hop I I don't know I
mean I'm from I'm from sort of Detroit
I'm from one hour away from Detroit so I
don't want to say that I'm actually from
Detroit because I'm not from you know
from getting from the ghetto but yeah it
was really popular really popular in my
hometown and Eminem was from Detroit it
was probably the first rapper that I
ever heard
I remember I remember for me there was a
turning point in my life I guess it was
around the year 2000 when I was in a
shopping mall in Canada and it's a
standard it's a standard crappy
uninteresting shopping mall in Canada
the the Eaton Centre was something like
that or Sears you know but as a
mainstream brand like that and I was I
was looking for clothes but I remember I
was looking for those that didn't have a
little leather that's what I remember
maybe I'm wrong but that's what I
remember and they started playing what
was just ten years earlier considered
really hardcore offensive hip-hop you
know anything they're playing hip-hop
that I can remember it seemed like just
five years earlier mainstream radio
didn't play like only the college
station played or only like specialized
on after 11 p.m.
played it was like this is now being
played as background music at the mall
you know in in a clothing store so yeah
I really lived through that where rap
music made the transition from being
something it lists it and provocative
and you know kind of banned to being
some of us just in the background like
wallpaper that's so while it widely
accepted that nobody thinks twice about
it you know them abuzz so but did you
have a period of your life where you
listened to country music or something
before wrapping you know no I never
listened to country music but you know I
did growing up my mom played a lot of
music from the 60s and 70s and so I grew
up with a lot of Motown a lot of like
earlier today you were saying white
people music oh yeah I want the one that
I mentioned was Creedence Clearwater
Revival but Queen Pink Floyd like Led
Zeppelin those were things that I really
started listening to it in an early age
yeah and I think I told you when I was
like 10 the first band that I really was
into was cake you know but the other
influence is video game music right so
like I'd say like wait for me as a kid
I'm simplifying slightly there was
basically no guitar music that really
mattered to me I was never into Pink
Floyd or heavy metal and by the way a
lot of kids when I grew up worshipped
Guns and Roses which you know they're
there but you know when I was a kid it
was not ironic you know what I mean they
worshipped guns Rosen they wanted to
yep the Seattle San Nirvana and those
guys right yeah so I I was never part of
any of that which is interesting
no me of course is a sites of
information to say like guitar music and
Rome you said no inflows about of course
I just some of it reached me because it
was so so ubiquitous but really I was
never a fan of than I was never into
that I was never into you to like u2 was
huge for my generation of this kind of
crap nothing it was never into I was
never really into into white people
music but when I look back now I wasn't
a Sol Sol Sol is slightly more serious
than most at Motown some Motown his soul
some soul was mode you know they are not
totally separate I was into soul I was
into jazz I was into blues all right so
that's you know again that's obviously
African American dominated genres of
music but also I was really influenced
by a video game music so we listen to
the other day some train of thought
brought it up I put on the music from
level one to our tight on the Sega
Master System you know what I mean just
like this is banging this is like the
opening to to a rap track you know what
I mean but it's definitely true in terms
of the simplicity and the beat and just
the format like yeah a lot of the the
video game music I grew up with and so
you wouldn't know this I was I'm not
really old enough to notice but I had a
friend and his father still had the
Commodore 64 so Congress Eva that's
really guys who were 10 years older than
me who would mean to that I'm too young
to mean that but this is this one from
habit and converses for ludie goes in
those the the the the music chip and
it's called the sia to chip s ID the sid
chip right now on youtube if you just do
like sid chip c64 music there are all
these youtube channels that that collect
this stuff but commerce 64 their video
games took a while to load and they had
loading music i swear to god like in
terms of probably like at a really early
age forming my taste for hip hop you've
got these banging chip tunes on the
commodore 64 and that was it and there
was nothing else to distract you there
just be like like the screen would say
loading and it's banging video game
music which was better than like
Nintendo music you know it was better
than the simple you know video game
converse 64 had a chipset that was a few
steps up in terms of the sophistication
of what what they could do with it
musically so yeah probably
hearing the loading tunes on Congress 64
and here because you think about the
amount of repetition for some of the
video game music as a child sega master
system and then later Sega Genesis Sega
Genesis at a really strong base like the
base ship this is a nice fuzzy horror
bass sound Sega Genesis music probably
drew me into rap although as I say I
already would have been flirting with
the blues and jazz and soul and some
stuff like that but yeah the final leap
to being a rap fan you know was was hard
to take because so much of the music was
so outrageous ly meaningless you know
like we had this so we looked the other
day at some current hip-hop because a
lot of well look he's like a listen to a
little hip-hop but some of the other but
listen to is five years old or something
you know what I mean like it's not it's
not classic or something but it's not a
said in camo yesterday but most of us do
that now the internet with the internet
you know like you know you filter what
you want to listen to you select what
you think is gonna be good um but yeah
sure if you like a track you overlook
the extent to which the lyrics are
meaningless but when you're a little bit
leery you don't know you think who is
this artists nurse you haven't heard
before as a genre yeah unlike blues
music because that was what I knew I
already knew blues you know and I
already knew jazzed are a new soul those
songs are about something and normally
the take boats out see what they're
about and you go from there and like
what like a great great track by Raekwon
is called snake pond it's not about a
snake it's not about a pond it's just a
bunch of death threats it's a standard
gangster rap great track love that
driver here's another called ice water
it's not about ice water you know like
you know whoo tang is is a great example
that were the relationship between the
title and the chorus and the lyric
there's none it's completely abstract
right so for me definitely there was a
kind of process of reconciling myself to
the reckless abstract meaninglessness of
what what goes on in the genre that was
that was why it took me so long in a
sense to become a fan of retinues I
could say yeah somebody asked Osen or
likes again so did you get it more into
the rap / hip-hop music after a meeting
eyes'll
I don't think so when I first went off
to college that was probably when I
first started listening to more rap in
hip-hop because trying to listen to it
at my parents house I would encounter a
lot of criticism and I guess maybe
rightly so you know I'm a white girl
from the suburbs of Detroit maybe I
shouldn't be really into hip-hop or rap
like but you know it is something I like
listening to but yeah before I went off
to college I listened to a lot more um
alternative and rock music indeed but
yeah when I went off to college I first
started listening to like souls of
mischief and mu Tang Clan and the
notorious b.i.g Tupac like thing like I
was looking just like the intro like
intro to rap and hip-hop and then I just
got more into it since then since then
the other the other real difference new
generations is just the cost of
listening to music right so for me when
I started University music was still
something I had to pay for yeah and like
when wu-tang put out a two CD album I
can remember not when it was new a
couple years after it came out picking
everything iron flag by wu-tang and like
let's say in Canadian dollars it was
probably twenty five dollars or
something it's like in the States maybe
20 or whatever 1999 or something that
was a lot of money and like half of the
tracks are garbage even if you're
booting your loot Eggman come on you
kidding me like you like every track of
the album but that was a huge barrier to
entry that was a big big difference and
now fundamentally most rap or all rap is
free if you decide to buy an album it's
kind of a voluntary because you can hear
it on YouTube you know if you don't you
don't pirate it or whatever you can you
can stay in the loop absolutely for free
that's a huge huge difference and I
really got into buying rap music when
the CD was dying so at that time in
Toronto so I remember buying secondhand
ODB n-word please but ODB probably paid
you know three dollars and 99 cents for
Canadian or something because there was
this period of time when CD as a medium
was dying and all the store
were unloading they were getting rid of
their CDs and CD collectors were getting
rid of it so that was for some when I
was buying hip-hop but because we at the
university radio station I I got to hear
a lot of rap music before I really owned
any justify university right I'm back in
those days reading and writing essays I
was listening to long long hours of
radio so yeah via radio and in Canada we
had the infamous much music that wasn't
much music was in its heyday much music
was our competitor to MTV and it's now
garbage it's been garbage for years but
back at that time it had this period of
a couple of years it was really strong
and they had they had quite good hip-hop
coverage so you know I mean compared to
MTV or what have you
so yeah before I was actually paying
money for it and then we entered this
wonderful wonderful era when artists
have to go into debt to release their
music for free and not make a nickel or
dime out of it so yeah what's wonderful
for the listeners in some ways harder
than ever for the artists right yeah
yeah well I'll ask you a tough question
I ask you tough question I'm 38 I got a
four year old daughter around the time
my daughter was born shortly after her
birth ash I deleted all the rap music of
my hard drive and I thought okay for the
next 10 years I'm not gonna be listening
to rap music agree this is built on
death threats and boasting and you know
who owns a bigger car and who stabbed
more people over a bag of crack and
whatever you know this is this is what
the Charter is largely about right but I
mean you know when you look at the
future you're now 24 so coming up is is
34 and so on you know what would you or
how you know do you see rap being you
know consistently part of your adult
life or what and where do you think
where do you think it goes because we
don't we don't go to nightclubs I mean
oh okay if I were to ask you do you
think in the next 10 years you're gonna
go to a lot of live gigs and nightclubs
or album or at least parties for rap I
think neither one of us sees that we
could go back to Canada we will see a
little bee you know little bee is gonna
perform live in Victoria I'm sure he's
done it before he'll do it again
but you know that's that's really not
part of our lives it's really rap as a
recording art you know that's part of us
when you look at the next 10 years what
do you say you're going to open
open a vegan rap rap based on what we
just saw in WorldStarHipHop the other
day I don't think I don't think it'll
play a huge role in the future of my you
know but um yeah music yeah yeah it
seems pretty bad but there are some
artists that I that I am still
interested in and whatever they come up
with next
your old Droog Jacob so yeah I think I
think I would probably still listen to
it I love music all kinds of music I
think we differ in that way I mean you
you like you like other kinds of music
as well but I do like all different
genres so you know if we're with your
daughter obviously I will not play grab
music but I still feel confident that
there's a lot of music that I could play
around your thigh still really like yeah
yeah but yeah I'm not sure we'll see
we'll see how the genre progresses yeah
I mean it could be I mean the thing is
there's enough music I like in the past
I could be into rap for the rest of my
life I only listen to music from the
past you know if there is even there
isn't a future of the journey is really
depressing seeing what some
WorldStarHipHop today
and I'm finally like agreeing with the
cranky old man on flat TV who complained
you know hope is dead it's such a
that you know ever Nath said
that 20 years ago or something like
already 20 years ago people were saying
rap is dead you know rap is almost a
uniquely backward-looking
art form like already on wu-tang second
album there are references back to their
first album as being the good old days
you know and I mean there's being a lost
era you know I mean there's this
perpetual sense of the Yanis telogen of
the past escaping the the irredeemable
quality of the lost greatness of the
past and the lost and it's mostly like
25 year olds rapping about stuff they
did when they were 15 - this is really
weird you know past verses president
president they have more money now
there's not enough to rap about it well
you look at you look at little B he
already was famous and successful at 16
I think you know his his first hit song
the song about his shoes he did this rap
song just about shoes and that was a hit
I think he was 16 so he's doing all this
stuff about being broke and being a
crack dealer and stuff so that was when
you were 15 and a half like it's just
from those six months you know first it
song came out because after that what
you know and and there are rappers you
who've been up front about that talking
about what uh
you know what time with their lives
they're they're rapping about and how
sometimes it is very specific I think
what the game he names the the brand of
shoes he was wearing during his own very
brief time of being in gang banging he
like he had think it was like one summer
he was like yes the year I bought the
Air Max 95 that was the one year when I
was really involved with gang violence
and you know whatever you know and
that's that's what his whole career is
based on yeah anyway story this is this
a digression but yeah there's there's
the nature of what's going on in the
genre what's going on in the art form
and then there's the nature of what's
going on in your own life and how those
things how those things fit together
like for me when I was a child not a
teenager when I was a child
I respond in such a big way to Chris
Rock's comedy just on Saturday Night
Live terms of the racial tension of what
was going to run on so after seven it
was not as raw you know it's what he
does stand-up right but like Chris Rock
had this comedic Garrett called NAT X
like you know like Malcolm X NAT X right
like Nat Turner and Malcolm X this kind
of joke revolutionary character but to
me I can remember absolutely being on
the floor in stitches laughing at that
that was so funny and to me it addressed
you know like the racial tensions and
the political tensions and the
revolutionary tensions in my school in
my neighborhood in my own family you
know what I mean because my parents were
phony revolutionaries in their way too
and I did you know the the high school I
graduated from it was maybe majority
black maybe it was 45% black but black
people were very very much that I have
to mention it cuz I'm Canadian they're
not very many neighborhoods Canada you
know they're like that and so on but
yeah I mean there's that level on which
the struggle in rap and the political
tensions in rap and there was like a
whole new genre of I can't breathe
rap you know a Tamir rice shooting rap
you know what those those shootings
those did really produce a lot of a lot
of great tracks including by older
artists you know there were kind of old
fossils in semi-retirement beanie sigel
beanie sigel made politically conscious
rap I think for the more or less the
first time in his life beanie sigel came
out of retirement to do tracks on that
so that that's an example where the
genre is still alive and still as that
still has that edge to it and so on for
sure
this is actually coming before it's at
least come before on live stream we know
a lot of my professors they really like
respected the fact that listen to rap
and ass so it is something I don't know
at least other middle-class white people
can can show you could show your respect
yeah so somebody said no more positive
rap makes it to mainstream it's all done
down low IQ rap so there may be some
truth to that but from from what for my
experience I think that has been the
case in the past as well yeah like when
and watching MTV in 1995 it was all crap
on it yeah one of the first songs that I
was introduced to was from a friend of
mine who is probably a bad influence on
me when I was like I don't know starting
middle school was that song Colt 45 colt
45 and two zigzags baby that's all we
need yeah so it's it's really
inappropriate
but anyway it's not a great you know
it's not great quality it's just talking
about getting stoned in a park right and
also like a really popular song when I
was that age was like our Kellie's remix
to ignition yes these aren't great songs
and also as I mentioned that Eminem was
huge where I was from this huge
misconception that raps started off
political and got less political with
time I'm sorry but I remember the
original Eric gentlemanlike 1979 to 1980
for most those songs were about put your
hands up in the air
I'm around like you just don't care that
was what God you know that was what got
ready but those are the dominant song
and we just heard boy I put it in a
video too right we went back and checked
like what's the truth
bust a move you know that's that's not
completely meaningless but yeah sure in
terms of what was mainstream and what
was successful in every era I mean I
guess we really just have the one
example of Chuck D and Public Enemy
which you know and that's music it
doesn't age that well it doesn't I mean
I'm I'm sorry but I don't think a lot of
people listen to Chuck D while they're
riding in their car or riding on the bus
or whatever I mean it has an H that well
whereas bust-a-move really has and by
the way a let's song you just
mentioned remix to ignition it holds up
amazingly well I've heard I've heard new
cover versions of that track that still
hold up you know like new you know new
renditions of it so musically some of
the shallow pop stuff ages really well
but like no I mean there's definitely a
rose-colored glasses effect of looking
back and wanting to pretend that hip-hop
was integrally about politics and that
it somehow only lately become dumbed
down you know no I mean you know Rob
base and DJ EZ rock it was about nothing
man you know it was about having a good
time that was it you know I think the
new me goes music is going to age very
well and that's what's on the mainstream
right now it's maybe like 20% of the
music that gets put out on the radio
that survives that actually ages well
but to me it's only just these last
couple of years that I felt like a
cranky old man that way I think just
five years ago I could really relate to
what was going on on WorldStarHipHop or
on the hot 97 or whatever you want to
take that wasn't hard for me but it's
really just the last couple of years
that yeah rap to me I really feel like
these cranky old man on glad TV saying
this isn't even in rap music him I never
thought I'd be in that
because until quite recently I did stay
current I was downloading every new
mixtape from djy towel
rest in peace tgy towel is now dead and
by the way he died vegan he actually had
some posts up saying that he went vegan
and simple food so I wonder if he went
vegan on doctor's orders because I
noticed he went vegan and then died not
long thereafter but regardless DJ white
I will put up mixtapes but I was
listening to you know uh txl I was
downloading and keeping current with new
hip hop a lot of which is sort of mean
like you know members of wu-tang Raekwon
is still putting out new art you know
some of them are older guys but still
putting out new and I didn't think I
would ever be in the position of being a
cranky old man who's not connected to
what's going on now in hip-hop but it
has it has finally happened so yeah
we'll see what's next I mean you know
there's this quote that's been you know
used by 50 cent in other rappers and
going times the realest thing you can do
is have a drum pee but nothing put a
drum beat I think there's a sense in
which hip hop will never die but I mean
jazz never died doesn't mean hear it on
the radio it doesn't mean you you know
doesn't mean it's mainstream anymore can
disappear from the mainstream without
dying you know real quick anecdote on
that I met a distant relative of mine
once so I don't know she's my cousin
three times removed or something I don't
even know how I'm related this girl but
I met this girl and she's from the
Jewish side of my family I never met her
again never met her before never did
that's the only time I ever talked to
her and I sat down and met with her and
you know she seemed good-looking and
intelligent and we kind of talked about
some stuff and we sat down and the other
adults were at the table so you know
some kind of family banquet dinner type
of thing and I don't even think there
was much of a pretext out of the blue
she just went on this rant where she
said she claimed that rap music was not
real music and it takes absolutely no
skill and that anybody can do it and so
on I know a lot of people heard that I
know a lot of people that grew up with a
lot of the rel sin that I had literally
never heard that before my life not even
once so at that time the school I was at
I was still in primary school we did
have some black people but let's say
less than 10% of people but we had a lot
of Hispanics Chileans
South Americans we had we had people
from all over the world with
Koreans but you know it was a
multicultural school but it wasn't
predominantly black last we just won
president I had never once hurt anyone
not even on the schoolyard suggests that
rap music is not real you know he never
once you have the environment I grew up
I grew up in downtown Toronto but at
that no it's just it's just you know I
think that's never seen downtown of the
suburbs I did not grow up ever ever
hearing it said that somehow rap was
less of a real genre of music than I
don't know country music or rock music
or anything else and there were
obviously the type of rap music that was
popular with children it's different
from but there there was there were rap
there were back there was cassette tapes
literally being handed around the
schoolyard and people getting into 2
Live Crew and day club abortions and you
know some of them being you know joke
rap bands you know but still in the
Beastie Boys of course Beastie Boys
ruled the schoolyard is no no doubt
about that
you know but Buster this girl right so
I'm sitting and I am flabbergasted and
that's him I didn't think of myself as a
fan of hip-hop
I just thought himself as a normal kid
same way like I wouldn't have said like
I'm like what are you a fan of Sega in
video games all kids were playing video
games all kids listened to hip-hop I
didn't think I was more of a fan of it
than other people you know and I was
just amazed at this and I you know I
tried to you know in Socratic dialogue
form again express my my amazement at
this but she you know she was not
hearing it and you know I think I said
today I'm sorry my own argument I'm it's
not that interesting but I said you know
why is it that you recognize an electric
guitar as a musical instrument but when
you plug in a turntable and scratch it
you don't recognize that's like what you
know what is it well free was I'd never
thought about that I'd never rehearsed
it like for some people had that that
conversation 10 20 times and the usually
my dad sat there just kind of smirking
in his sense of smoke superiority over
with her he didn't say anything but then
afterwards I said can you believe that
look y-you know why would anyone say
that you know I didn't even accuse her
of racism right now didn't say that
these were these were all white
relatives Imam of the way but anyway
well white and Jewish white and or
Jewish whether
you categorize Jewish as white or what
is Jewish but anyway uh and what my
father said to me really stuck with me
it was more wise than anything else he
ever said about hip hop or many other
topics let me say he said it's always
like that in every new art form whenever
there's a new art form
people first refuse to recognize it as
ours and that's totally beside the point
because the question is on a
case-by-case basis is this a great work
of art like you know it's not worth
questioning is this a song or is this
music that's the wrong question the
question is about particular works of
art particular artists is this a great
work of art okay so shout out to my dad
rested you want a mom yeah maybe maybe
we're gonna view migos in that light ten
years from now yeah it was a true work
of art migos Freezone maybe maybe the
very brief period of greatness from riff
raff no but not me goes I got a I got a
draw the line somewhere all right guys
we're back to the live stream